Hi. My name is Ryan Slashinsky.
I'm a teacher here at Marshview
Middle School in Sackville, New Brunswick.
So this, project, this story
actually starts
with, a student initiative.
I had I've been teaching,
a lot of, music.
I've been teaching lots of drama.
And, as part of my regular,
programing at the school.
But also a lot of extracurricular.
So I've been, every couple of years
I've directed a school musical,
and we've put that on very large
scale productions.
And we've had, the opportunity
to involve,
over half of the, the school
in each of those productions, like.
But when it comes down
to props and costumes and designing
and building sets and all of the things
that go around putting together
such a large scale production,
it involves so many people.
So over half of the staff
and students of the school at some point
are contributing something towards
that, large community project,
which is really exciting and fun
to see, that passion go into that work.
So the students, have had some experience
working,
in, theatrical productions
and putting them together.
And that, often inspires them to start
to think of their own,
initiatives and creativity, and wanting
to put that in and wanting to do that,
put that into practice.
So the question I get asked
most often at the end of the musical is,
okay, what are we doing next?
So, yeah,
this this story starts with a student
who, was super into the theater,
had such a great time doing
the musical, wanted to do something else,
right away.
And he decided
he was going to write his own, show.
So, he came to
me, he approached me, and he said, like,
I want to write this show.
Can I use the school, resources, the
costumes, the props, that kind of stuff?
Absolutely. For sure. No problem.
And, then through this project, as
he got started and got got going with it,
other kids got involved.
He put together a whole crew.
He had a co-writer.
Then there was the actors involved, and
I helped him go through the process of,
not only writing this show,
but mounting it, putting it together.
So that was done through,
my involvement
with other community organizations.
So, I work with a local community
theater group.
I knew that that, they had, well,
we have a theater space.
I knew that we needed a space for
for this,
burgeoning group to put on their play.
So I put those two in touch, and I, I
there was a theater festival
that was happening in a few weeks.
I said, let's put together this show
and let's apply
to put it on,
at the local community theater festival.
And, they were accepted, of course.
You know, having kids
in, in the festival was, amazing
and such a wonderful experience
for not only the kids and for the parents,
but like, the audience was packed, as
it often is, with, with kids productions.
They, they brought their fan clubs
to come and see.
And so, it was a boon to the community
festival of such,
an exciting event, for everyone.
And then to see these kids
that had gone from,
not knowing how to do anything
to putting together completely
on their own,
with minimal involvement from me,
their, their own show from beginning
to end, writing it, directing it,
casting it, the acting,
the rehearsal process,
finding, designing all of the costumes
and props and sets and all of that.
You know, they
they worked on that on their own, with,
just some guidance from me.
So that was really exciting to see them
go from, again, from that process of,
not knowing how to do anything in theater
to putting together
their own show from
scratch. Pretty cool. Yeah.